board:  iotdk: add a new arc based board suport (#11616)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: boards/arc/iotdk/doc/board.rst

Baud:     115200
Data:     8 bits
Parity:    None
Stopbits:  1
========= =====

Debugging
==========

Using the latest version of Zephyr SDK(>=0.9), you can debug and flash IoT
Development Kit directly.

One option is to build and debug the application using the usual
Zephyr build system commands.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :app: <my app>
   :goals: debug

At this point you can do your normal debug session. Set breakpoints and then
'c' to continue into the program.

The other option is to launch a debug server, as follows.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :app: <my app>
   :goals: debugserver

Then connect to the debug server at the IoT Development Kit from a second
console, from the build directory containing the output :file:`zephyr.elf`.

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd <my app>
   $ $ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR/sysroots/x86_64-pokysdk-linux/usr/bin/ \
      arc-zephyr-elf/arc-zephyr-elf-gdb zephyr.elf
   (gdb) target remote localhost:3333
   (gdb) load
   (gdb) b main
   (gdb) c

Flashing
========

If you just want to download the application to the IoT Development Kit's CCM
and run, you can do so in the usual way.

.. zephyr-app-commands::

>    :board: iotdk

Reviewer: here you are missing :app:

Author: thanks, already fixed

   :goals: flash

This command still uses openocd and gdb to load the application elf file to
IoT Development Kit, but it will load the application and immediately run. If

> power is removed, the application will be lost since it wasn't written to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
power is removed, the application will be lost since it wasn't written to flash.
```

.. _iotdk:

DesignWare(R) ARC(R) IoT Development Kit
########################################

Overview
********

> The DesignWare(R) ARC(R) IoT Development Kit is a versatile platform that includes the necessary hardware and software to accelerate software development and debugging of sensor fusion, voice recognition and face detection designs. The ARC IoT Development Kit includes a silicon implementation of the ARC Data Fusion IP Subsystem running at 144 MHz on SMIC's 55-nm ultra-low power process, and a rich set of peripherals commonly used in IoT designs such as USB, UART, SPI, I2C, PWM, SDIO and ADCs.

Author: already done

> The DesignWare(R) ARC(R) IoT Development Kit is a versatile platform that includes the necessary hardware and software to accelerate software development and debugging of sensor fusion, voice recognition and face detection designs. The ARC IoT Development Kit includes a silicon implementation of the ARC Data Fusion IP Subsystem running at 144 MHz on SMIC's 55-nm ultra-low power process, and a rich set of peripherals commonly used in IoT designs such as USB, UART, SPI, I2C, PWM, SDIO and ADCs.

Author: already done

.. image:: iotdk_board.jpg
   :width: 442px
   :align: center
   :alt: DesignWare(R) ARC(R)IoT Development Kit (synopsys.com)

See also this URL for details about the board: `ARC IoT Development Kit
(IoTDK) <https://www.synopsys.com/dw/ipdir.php?ds=arc_iot_development_kit>`__

Hardware
********

> For the hardware features, see also this URL: `ARC IoT Development Kit

Author: already done

<http://embarc.org/embarc_osp/doc/build/html/board/iotdk.html>`__

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Required Hardware and Software
==============================

To use Zephyr RTOS applications on the IoT Development Kit board, a few additional
pieces of hardware are required.

> * Micro USB Cable

Author: already done

* Connect the digilent usb cable from your host to the board.

* Connect the 5V DC power supply to your board (optional).

Set up Zephyr Software
======================

Building Sample Applications
==============================

You can try many of the sample applications or tests, but let us discuss
the one called :ref:`hello_world`.
It is found in :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/samples/hello_world`.

Configuring
-----------

You may need to write a prj_arc.conf file if the sample doesn't have one.
Next, you can use the menuconfig rule to configure the target. By
specifying ``iotdk`` as the board configuration, you can select the ARC
IoT Development Kit board support for Zephyr.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :goals: menuconfig

Building
--------

You can build application in the usual way.  Refer to
:ref:`build_an_application` for more details. Here is an example for
:ref:`hello_world`.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :maybe-skip-config:
   :goals: build

Connecting Serial Output
=========================

In the default configuration, Zephyr's IoT Development Kit images support

> serial output via the USB-UART on the board.  To enable serial output:

Reviewer 2: Let's merge this to:
```
Enable serial output on your development environment, you'll need to:
```

> On your development environment, you will need to:

Reviewer 2: and delete this line

Author: already done

Parity:    None
Stopbits:  1
========= =====

Debugging
==========

Using the latest version of Zephyr SDK(>=0.9), you can debug and flash
IoT Development Kit directly.

One option is to build and debug the application using the usual
Zephyr build system commands.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :app: <my app>
   :goals: debug

At this point you can do your normal debug session. Set breakpoints and then
'c' to continue into the program.

The other option is to launch a debug server, as follows.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :app: <my app>
   :goals: debugserver

Then connect to the debug server at the IoT Development Kit from a second
console, from the build directory containing the output :file:`zephyr.elf`.

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd <my app>
   $ $ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR/sysroots/x86_64-pokysdk-linux/usr/bin/arc-zephyr-elf/arc-zephyr-elf-gdb \
      zephyr.elf
   (gdb) target remote localhost:3333
   (gdb) load
   (gdb) b main
   (gdb) c

Flashing
========

If you just want to download the application to the IoT Development Kit's CCM
and run, you can do so in the usual way.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: iotdk
   :goals: flash

> This command still uses openocd and gdb to load application elf file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command still uses openocd and gdb to load the application elf file
```

Author: already done

> to IoT Development Kit, but it will load application and then run immediately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to IoT Development Kit, but it will load the application and immediately run it.
```

Author: already done

> If power is lost, the application will also lost due to power loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If power is removed, the application will be lost since it wasn't written to the flash.
```

Most of the time you will not be flashing your program but will instead
debug it using openocd and gdb. The program can be download via the USB
cable into the code and data memories.

When you are ready to deploy the program so that it boots up automatically
on reset or power-up, you can follow the steps to place the program on
SPI-FLASH or interal eFlash.

For instructions on how to write your program to FLASH,
refer to the documentation on the IoT Development Kit at the
`embARC website`_.

Release Notes
*************

The following is a list of TODO items:

> * :jira:`GH-2647`: Zephyr needs i-cache API (all targets)

Reviewer 2: The Zephyr project isn't using Jira for tracking issues.  What is this referring to?

Author: removed
